Question 1
.It describes the sequence in which the phases of the software lifecycle will be performed.
 It's important because 
Software process models are convenient tools that developers use to track every progress of their projects.

            Question 2

Waterfall is that Waterfall breaks down software development into isolated phases that flow into each other, while Agile advocate for sprints.

Advantages of the Waterfall model

Uses clear structure. When compared with other methodologies, Waterfall focuses most on a clear, defined set of steps. ...
Determines the end goal early. ...
Transfers information well. ...
              Disadvantages of Water Fall model

Makes changes difficult. 
Excludes the client and/or end user. 
Delays testing until after completion.
The benefits of Agile

 · 1. Satisfied customers ·
 2. Improved quality · 
3.Adaptability ·
 4. Predictability · 

 

 Disadvantages of Agile Methodology

Less predictable. The flexibility at the core of the Agile method also means a much lower degree of predictability. 
More time and commitment. 

Greater demands on developers and clients. 

Lack of necessary documentation. 

disadvantages of the Waterfall model

Makes changes difficult. Waterfall is based entirely on following a set of steps that keep teams always moving forward. 
Excludes the client and/or end user. 
Delays testing until after completion.

          Question 3
  The Rational Unified Process is a modern generic 
process model that is organized into phases (inception, 
elaboration, construction and transition) but separates 
activities (requirements, analysis and design, etc.) from 
these phases. It Brings together aspects of the three generic process models. 

       
The Rational Unified Process is different from other software development modes because it separates 
activities (requirements, analysis and design, etc.) from its phases , that is, inception, 
elaboration, construction and transition.

The key phases in the Rational Unified Process are as follows:
Inception, 
Elaboration,
Construction and 
Transition.

 Benefits of using the Rational Unified Process. 

1.Develop software iteratively:


2. Manage requirements:
Explicitly document customer requirements and keep track of 
changes to these requirements.


   Draw backs of using the Rational Unified Process.
 
    1.Expensive or costly 

    2. Complex 

  

