Q1.software process model is an abstract representation 
of a process. It presents a description of a process from 
some particular perspective. 
software process model is very important because it ensures that final software products meets user requirements.

 Q2. Comparing and contrasting Water                fall and Agile Model.

                    similarities 
 i.The water fall model and the Agile are both Software development process models.
 ii.
Both the Water fall model and the Agile Model focus on user requirements.
iiii. Both the Water fall model and the Agile Model follow a systematic process 
                     Differences
i. The water fall model is one of the oldest software development model but Agile one of the modern software development model.
ii. The Water fall model uses the plan-driven development process but the agile uses the Incremental software development process.
    Benefits of water fall model 
1. softwares are systematically and carefully developed.
2. It is more emphatic on software maintenance
       Drow backs of the water fall model

The main drawback of the waterfall model is the difficulty 
of accommodating change after the process is underway.

          Benefits of the Agile Model

 The cost of accommodating changing customer 
requirements is reduced. 
1.The amount of analysis and documentation that has to be 
redone is much less than is required with the waterfall model.

2.It is easier to get customer feedback on the development 
work that has been done. 


      Drow backs of the Agile Model

   1.It is very difficult to divide problems into several versions that would be acceptable to a customer.


Q3.
  The Rational Unified Process is a modern generic 
process model that is organized into phases (inception, 
elaboration, construction and transition) but separates 
activities (requirements, analysis and design, etc.) from 
these phases.It Brings together aspects of the 3 generic processes.

       
The Rational Unified Process is different from other software development modes because it separates 
activities (requirements, analysis and design, etc.) from its phases , that is, inception, 
elaboration, construction and transition.

The key phases in the Rational Unified Process are inception, 
elaboration, construction and transition.

  Benefits of using the Rational Unified Process. 

    1.Develop software iteratively:
▪ Plan increments based on customer priorities and deliver highest 
priority increments first.
✧ Manage requirements
2.Explicitly document customer requirements and keep track of 
changes to these requirements.
3.Use component-based architectures:
▪ Organize the system architecture as a set of reusable 
components.

   Draw backs of using the Rational Unified Process.
 

    1. Might be very Expensive.
    2. Possible to create Moving Target problems.

  

