Q1.software process model   refers to an abstract representation 
of a process. It it shows a description of a process from 
some particular perspective. 
software process model is a very important concept in software engineering because it ensures that final software products meet organizational standards and requirements.

 Q2.The following Compares and contrasts Water     fall and Agile Model.

          similarities between the two models

 i.The water fall model and the Agile are both Software development process are both software methodologies.
 ii.
Both the Water fall model and the Agile Model try to meet  user requirements.
III. Both water fall and Agile Model uses systematic approach.
 
                     Differences
i. In the Water Fall model, deliverables are given when project is completely done but in the agile Model, a  deliverable is given and features are added from time to time.

 ii. The Water fall model uses the plan-driven development process but the agile uses the Incremental software development process.

    Benefits of water fall model 
1. softwares are systematically and carefully developed.
2. It is more emphatic on software maintenance
       Drow backs of the water fall model

The main drawback of the waterfall model is the difficulty 
of accommodating change after the process is underway.

          Benefits of the Agile Model

 The cost of accommodating changing customer 
requirements is reduced. 
1.The amount of analysis and documentation that has to be 
redone is much less than is required with the waterfall model.

2.It is easier to get customer feedback on the development 
work that has been already done.


      Drow backs of the Agile Model

   1.It is very difficult to divide problems into several versions that would be acceptable to a customer or an end user.


Q3.
  The Rational Unified Process is a modern generic 
process model that is organized into phases (inception, 
elaboration, construction and transition) but separates 
activities (requirements, analysis and design, etc.) from 
these phases. It Brings together aspects of the 3 generic process models. 

       
The Rational Unified Process is different from other software development modes because it separates 
activities (requirements, analysis and design, etc.) from its phases , that is, inception, 
elaboration, construction and transition.

The key phases in the Rational Unified Process are :
Inception, 
Elaboration,
Construction and 
Transition.

  Benefits of using the Rational Unified Process. 

1.Develop software iteratively:
▪ Plan increments based on customer priorities and deliver highest 
priority increments first.

2. Manage requirements:
Explicitly document customer requirements and keep track of 
changes to these requirements.


   Draw backs of using the Rational Unified Process.
 
    1.it is relatively Expensive.

    2. Possible to create Scope creep.
