1.	A process model is a descriptive and diagrammatic representation of the software life cycle.
It is important in software engineering because without using a particular life cycle model, the development of a software product would not be in a systematic and disciplined manner.
2.	The waterfall model is a plan-driven model where separate and distinct phases of specification and development. It follows phases starting from feasibility study, requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, and maintenance. with waterfall model if any change is being implemented, it affects all the phase (i.e. a phase has to be completed before moving to the next phase).
It is mostly used for large systems engineering projects where a system is developed at several sites. 
The agile process is easier to change in the course of the process to suit customer requirement 
Working with the agile model is easier and faster, whiles the waterfall model, one work is done at a time therefore making the work neat and nice because each step has to be completed before the next step.
The main drawback of the waterfall model is the difficulty of accommodating change after the process is done, whiles with the agile process, it is easy to interrupt because changes can be make at anytime.

3.	Rational unified process is a modern generic process derived from the work on the UML and its associated process. It differs from other software development process models in such a way that its derived from already made or exist work of the UML and its associated process. The key phases are Inception, elaboration, construction and transition. Activities:1
i.	Inception: It establish the business case for the system.
ii.	Elaboration: Develops an understanding of the problem domain and the system architecture.
iii.	Construction: System design, programming and testing.
iv.	Transition: Deploy the system in its operating environment.   

The benefits of the RUP are the separation of the phases and workflows, and also recognition that that deploying software in a user’s environment is part of the process. 
