(1)Software process models are convenient tools that developers use to map every step of their projects. 
They help project managers plan their processes, estimate costs, identify challenges and communicate with teams and customers.

2.(a)The main difference is that Waterfall is a linear system of working that requires the team to complete each project phase before moving on to the next one while
 Agile encourages the team to work simultaneously on different phases of the project.

(b)The key difference between Agile vs. Waterfall is that Waterfall breaks down software development into isolated phases that flow into each other, 
while Agile advocates iterative development cycles in which multiple lifecycle phases can run in parallel.


(c)Agile projects are typically cheaper and can be delivered quickly. They offer greater flexibility, 
but also produce less predictable results due to the uncertainty and unclear nature of many of the project characteristics.
 Waterfall projects are typically more expensive and take longer to deliver.

3.(a)Rational Unified Process (RUP) is a software development process for object-oriented models. It is also known as the Unified Process Model. 
It is created by Rational corporation and is designed and documented using UML (Unified Modeling Language).
This process is included in IBM Rational Method Composer (RMC) product.
Some characteristics of RUP include use-case driven, Iterative (repetition of the process), and Incremental (increase in value) by nature,
delivered online using web technology, can be customized or tailored in modular and electronic form, etc. RUP reduces unexpected development costs and prevents wastage of resources.


(b)These are the key phases of Rational Unified Process (RUP); 

(i)Inception –
Communication and planning are the main ones.
Identifies the scope of the project using a use-case model allowing managers to estimate costs and time required.
Customers’ requirements are identified and then it becomes easy to make a plan for the project.
The project plan, Project goal, risks, use-case model, and Project description, are made.
The project is checked against the milestone criteria and if it couldn’t pass these criteria then the project can be either canceled or redesigned.

(ii)Elaboration –
Planning and modeling are the main ones.
A detailed evaluation and development plan is carried out and diminishes the risks.
Revise or redefine the use-case model (approx. 80%), business case, and risks.
Again, checked against milestone criteria and if it couldn’t pass these criteria then again project can be canceled or redesigned.
Executable architecture baseline.

(iii)Construction –
The project is developed and completed.
System or source code is created and then testing is done.
Coding takes place.

(iv)Transition –
The final project is released to the public.
Transit the project from development into production.
Update project documentation.
Beta testing is conducted.
Defects are removed from the project based on feedback from the public.

(v)Production –
The final phase of the model.
The project is maintained and updated accordingly.


During initiation, project planners set the initial scope and budget for the project.
Construction is the phase in which the bulk of the application is programmed.

(c)Benefits of using RUP implies;
(i)Using the RUP process allows you to operate business analysis, design, testing and implementation throughout the software development process and its unique stages, 
helping you create a customized product.

Drawbacks of using RUP impies;
(ii)Complexity of process: Since RUP is a complicated procedure, successfully performing it requires software team members with great expertise.
Cost and time: The amount of documentation required for RUP can be time-consuming and expensive.

