Q1.     Software Processes is a coherent set of activities for specifying, designing,
implementing and testing software systems.
    The importance of Software Process Model in Software Development are that,
they provide a structured approach in, building and maintaining software systems. 

Q2. The key difference between Agile vs. Waterfall is that Waterfall breaks down 
software development into isolated phases that flow into each other, while Agile 
advocates iterative development cycles in which multiple lifecycle phases can run in parallel.
    Whether an organization develops applications with an Agile- or Waterfall-based
methodology, all software development projects incorporate common aspects of lifecycle 
phases, including:
requirements gathering;analysis and design;development and implementation;testing
and verification; and deployment and ongoing maintenance.
Waterfall is a linear sequencial life cycle model whiles Agile is a continious iteration of development and testing in the software development process
Agile performs testing concurrently with software development whiles waterfall, testing comes after the "build" phases
Agile allows changes in projects development requirements whiles waterfall has no scope of changing the requirements once the project development starts.

waterfall benefits
i. minimal scope creep
ii. precise project plan and firm deadline
iii. well defined roles and responsibilities

waterfall drawbacks
i. beaurocratic change management process
ii. lack of flexibility after a specification
iii. too many gaps between innovations reaching the market

agile benefits
i. flexibility to respond to the market and new intelligence
ii. rigid cadence, deadline flexibility
iii. self organizing team and resources allocation

agile drawbacks
i. loose testing requirement may let bugs through
ii. relentless space
iii.no opportunities to make changes during a sprint

Q3. Rational Unified process (RUP) is a software development process for objects oriented models.

Rational Unified process is an iterative process where instead of attempting to deliver the entire
the system in one end-to-end lifecycleset of phases, the system is delivered in iterations where the
iterationsare successive series of release each with an increasing level of completeness.

inception
elaboration
construction
transition
production

benefits of RUP
i. provides good documentation
ii. provides risk management suppoorts
iii. it reuses the components, and hence total time duration less
iv. good online support is available in the form of tutorials and training

drawbacks
i. hard to integrate again and again
ii. more dependency on risk management
iii. complex and not properly organized process
iv. team of expert professional is required as the process ia complex