Q1. Software process model is the mechanism of dividing software development work into distinct phases to improve design, product management,and project management.
Software process model is important in software development because,it provides a visual representation of the development process for both the 
the team and the customer to review.It also helps them determine the right process to follow for specific software,identify early challenges or cost constraints and acts as a record of the 
team's development process for the future.

Q2. Comparing Waterfall and Agile software process model,Waterfall breaks down software developement into isolated phases that 
flow into each other,while Agile advocates iterative development cycles in which multiple life cycle phases
can run in parallel.

Q2 b.(I) Agile allows changes in project developement requirements,
whereas Waterfall has no scope of changing the requirements once the project developmentstarts.

(ii) Agile performs testing concurrently with software developement,whereas
in Waterfall methodology, testing comes after the Build phase.

(iii) The Agile methodology is known for its flexibility,while
the Waterfall is a structured software developement methodology.

(iv) Waterfall is a linear sequential Life Cycle Model, whereas Agile is a continuous iteration of 
developement and testing in software developement process.

Q2. c. BENEFITS OF AGILE 
(I) Agile promotes some of the best practices found in development environments.
    some of the risk in a project should be reduced as the output of developers is 
    reviewed early and constantly during developement.

(ii)when projects are genuinely new they usually require creativity.
    Requirements can then emerge as understanding matures and grow.

(iii)With the common use of visuals,such as boards,charts kanban etc,it can be easy
to see what is going on literally,what done and what is yet to do,assuming the visuals are well organised
presented and up to date.This can ba a major benefit.

DRAWBACKS OF AGILE
(i)Agile is simple to understand in principle but hart to do well in practice.It requires real commitment
and first attempts are not likely to go very well.

(ii)It is less predictable what will be delivered at the end.

(iii)In Agile there can be reluctance by some to adopt or access deadlines.Project don't exist in isolation
so when this happens it can be a real issue.Agile methods typically only address the product develovepment 
and large scale projects can be made up of many other elements.

BENEFITS OF WATERFALL SOFTWARE PROCESS Model
(i)Where there are many interfaces and dependencies outside of the basic product develovepment,waterfall project tend to have
the tools to model and manage these.

(ii)Where large scale design or analysis is required, or the impact of downstream changes to design is very high,thisis likely
to be far more suitable approach.

(iii)Project team members don't need to be colocated aithough the risks associted with this must be managed carefully.

DRAWBACK OF WATERFALL SOFTWARE PROCESS Model
(i)Waterfall projects don't have to be but tend to be made up of teamss within teams.This can be a major disadvantage to any project.

(ii)Risk in general can be far higher with Waterfall,for example as the scope for invalid assumptions is unlimited. if you add
this to the high cost of making changes later in a Waterfall project,it is easy to see why some are very expensive,over budget and 
late.Too often,assurance of products being fit for purpose is demonstrated verylate in waterfall project.

(iii)Communication can be a far higher risk especially when there is limited early review of outputs and deliverables or when one way
methodes of communication are used to convey requirements.

Q3. Rational Unified Process is the ultimate guide for assigning tasks and responsibilities within a developement organization and developing
high quality software that meets the needs of the requirement of its users.


Q3. (b)THE KEY PHASES AND ACTIVITIES OF RUP
(i)INCEPTION PHASE: Essentially,in this cycle,your team determines the structure and the basic idea of the project.Also, the team will decide if 
the project is worth pursuing at all based on the estimated cost,the necessary resources and the goal they are trying to achieve
with the project.

(ii)ELABORATION PHASE: The aim of this phase is to analyze the requirement of the system,develop the project plan and eliminate
the highest risk elements of the project.It's undoubtedly the most critical of all stages as it signifies the transition from low-risk
to high-risk.It's also the point when your team has to make a decision whether to start a construction development coding or not.

(iii)CONSTRUCTION PHASE:At this stage, your team is finally ready to develop all components and features and integrate them into the product
.It's a manufacturing process where your team focuses on managing resources in oder to optimize cost,schedules and the quality.

(iv)TRANSITION PHASE: The transition phase is the moment when the product is finally finished,released and delivered to customers.
However,once the product is given to the user,there are a number of issues than can arise.This requires the team to handle all the 
bugs-fixes and correct problems,or to finish some features that were postponed.

Q3. (c)BENEFITS OF RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS (RUP)
(I)It allows you to deal with changing requirements regardless of whether they are coming from the customer or from the project itself.

(ii)It emphasizes the need for accurate documentation.

(iii)It forces integration to happen throughout the software development,more specially in the construction phase.

DRAWBACKS OF RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS
(i)It mostly relies on the ability of experts and professionals to assign the activities to individuals who 
should then produce pre-planned results in the form of artifacts.

(ii)The integration in development process can also have an adverse impact on some more fundmental activiteis 
during the stages of testing.

(iii)Although RUP has delivered excellent results,especially in software development,it is a rather complex methodes
which makes its implimentation cchallenging,particularly for smaller businesses,teams or projects.
