1. A software model describes all the important aspects of the software, hiding the rest of them. In other words, the software model represents only the useful and required aspects of any software and all the other aspects that are not much important to showcase are abstracted. 

2.Agile vs. Waterfall
There’s no shortage of processes, frameworks, and philosophies when it comes to project management, but they ultimately fall into one of two camps: Agile vs. waterfall. Understanding what these two approaches are and how they differ is important for anyone involved in product development, organizational change, program management, or almost any other kind of structured project.

Agile and waterfall often represent an irreversible fork in the road for any initiative. Once you choose one path, it’s quite challenging to change course for that project, so it’s not a decision to take lightly. That’s not to say that Agile and waterfall can’t coexist in the same organization, but for a particular project, it’s usually a “one-or-the-other” inflection point.

3 The rational unified process (RUP) is a software engineering and development process focused on using the unified modeling language (UML) to design and build software. Using the RUP process allows you to operate business analysis, design, testing and implementation throughout the software development process and its unique stages, helping you create a customized product. You can use beta test models and prototypes of various software components in all phases of RUP to: 

Better achieve milestones
Calibrate elements of design
Troubleshoot concerns
Present the best possible software solutions
Often attributed to the company International Business Machines (IBM), RUP uses incremental, iterative and repetitive life cycles and steps to create software and website technology rather than designing it in one continuous process. Taking an Agile software design approach lets you adjust components and repeat the stages of RUP until you completely satisfy the software development requirements, goals and outcomes.

  