Please make sure to read every bit of instruction in the "instruction.txt" file
before you start answering these question.

Questions
1. What is a software process model and why is it important in software development?

Answer:
In software engineering, a software process model is the mechanism of dividing 
software development work into distinct phases to improve design, product management, 
and project management. 
Software process models are convenient tools that developers use 
to map every step of their projects. They help project managers 
plan their processes, estimate costs, identify challenges and communicate 
with teams and customers.


2. Compare and contrast the Waterfall and Agile software process models. 
What are the key differences between the two models and 
what are the benefits and drawbacks of each?
 
 Answer:

 The main difference is that Waterfall is a linear system of working that requires 
 the team to complete each project phase before moving on to the next one while Agile
 encourages the team to work simultaneously on different phases of the project.


Key differences:
The key difference between Agile vs. Waterfall is that Waterfall breaks
down software development into isolated phases that flow into each other, 
while Agile advocates iterative development cycles in which multiple lifecycle phases can run in parallel.
 
Advantages of Waterfall model:

 * The key difference between Agile vs. Waterfall is that Waterfall breaks down software 
   development into isolated phases that flow into each other, while Agile advocates iterative 
   development cycles in which multiple lifecycle phases can run in parallel.
 * Delays testing until after completion.

Disadvantages of Waterfall model:

 * it does not allow much reflection or revision
 * it is very difficult to go back and change something that was not well-documented 
   or thought upon in the concept stage.

 Advantages of Agile model:

 * Customer satisfaction by rapid, continuous delivery of useful software.
 * Working software is delivered frequently (weeks rather than months).
 
Disadvantages of Agile model:

* Teams get easily sidetracked due to lack of processes.
* Long-term projects suffer from incremental delivery.


3. What is Rational Unified Process (RUP), and 
how does it differ from other software development process models? 
What are the key phases and activities involved in RUP, and 
what are the benefits and drawbacks of using this approach in software development projects?

Answer:

The Rational Unified Process (RUP) is an iterative software development process framework created by 
the Rational Software Corporation, a division of IBM since 2003.[1] RUP is not a single concrete prescriptive
process, but rather an adaptable process framework, intended to be tailored by the development organizations and 
software project teams that will select the elements of the process that are appropriate for their needs. RUP is a
specific implementation of the Unified Process.

Using the RUP process allows you to operate business analysis, design, testing and implementation throughout the 
software development process and its unique stages, helping you create a customized product.Some characteristics of RUP 
include use-case driven, Iterative (repetition of the process), and Incremental (increase in value) by nature, delivered
online using web technology, can be customized or tailored in modular and electronic form, etc. RUP reduces unexpected development
costs and prevents wastage of resources.

The key phase of RUP:
There are four main phases in RUP:
* Inception: During the Inception phase, the main objectives are to acquire stakeholder agreement on the project’s goals and to secure funding.

* Elaboration:This is the most crucial of all the four stages of RUP, in which you examine the project’s requirements and necessary architecture,
 review the challenges, design the project plan and architect, and remove the high-risk aspects from the project.

* Construction: The focus is on the creation of system components and other features. Additionally, the bulk of coding occurs at this time.

* Transition:This is the final step in the entire product development life cycle that entails a transition from the development to the production stage.
 In the transition phase, testing is conducted on the software, defects are removed, and the software is released.

  Benefits of RUP:

* It allows you to deal with changing requirements regardless of whether they are coming from the customer or from the project itself.
* It forces integration to happen throughout the software development, more specifically in the construction phase.

  Disadvantages of RUP:
 
* It is a complex model to implement as it has multiple stages of the workflow.
* It is challenging for organizations to implement which has, small team size or projects.

