Solution

1. A software process model is the process of dividing software development work into distinct levels to improve design, product management, and project management.

Importance of Software Process Model:
	It is important because it guides the software development team through a systematic, well-structured and organized approach to building high-quality software that meets the user's requirements.


2a. Key Difference between Waterfall and Agile Process Model
i) Approach
	Waterfall is a sequential linear approah
	Agile is iterative incremental approah

ii) Requirements
	Waterfall requirements are determined at the beginning of the project.
	Agile requirements are developed throughout the project.

iii) Timeframe
	Waterfall requires longer timeframe to complete a project.
	Agile allows for quicker time by breaking the project into smaller pieces.

iv) Feedback
	Waterfall emphasizes documentation and review processes.
	Agile relies heavily on customer feedback.



2b. Benefits of Waterfall Process Model
	i) It help identify and moderate risks.
	ii) It help ensure clear understanding of requirements of the project.
	iii) It help predict the project timelines and cost estimation.

2b. Benefits of Agile Process Model
	i) Much emphasis on collaboration between stakeholders and developers.
	ii) It help gets products ready to market.
	iii) Allows changes and updates on the product throughout the development process.



3a. Rational Unified Process (RUP) is a software development process framework that help teams manage their projects efficiently to produce high-quality software products.


	How RUP differs from other SDP
3b. 	i) It is flexible and adaptable to different project needs.
	ii) It focuses on software architecture.
	iii) It is tailored to specific projects.
	iv) It uses a phased approach to developing software.


3c. Key Phases and Activities in RUP
	i) Inception
		This include project planning, stakeholder identification, requirement gathering and analysis.
	ii) Elaboration
		Activities include requirements analysis, use case modeling, architectural design and prototyping.
	iii) Construction
		Activities include coding, testing and integration.
	iv) Transition
		Activities include user training, system deployment and system maintenance.


3d. Benefits of using RUP
	i) It helps deliver working software early and frequently.
	ii) Help provide guidance on creating reusable software components to reduce development time.
	iii) Helps encourages collaboration and communication between stakeholders of a software.

	Drawbacks of using RUP
	i) It can be expensive in terms of expertise and training.
	ii) It is relatively rigit to projects requiring much flexibilities.
	iii) It is much challenge for inexperienced teams on implementation.