software model is the mechanism of dividing software developmet work into distinct phases to improve design, product management and project management.

Software model is important in software engineering because it provides abstractions of a system at some level of precision and detail.

2. (1) Waterfall breaks down software development into isolated phases that flow into each other while Agile advocates iterative development cycles in which multiple lifecycle phases can run in parallel.
   (2) Waterfallis a structured software development methodolgy while Agile is known for its flexibility

3. Rational Unified process is the ultimate guide for assigning tasks and responsibilities within a development organisation and developing high-quality software
   that meets the needs and requirement of its users.

   Rational Unified process provides several benefits and tools that can be used throughout the software development process.

   There are four main phases in Rational Unified process and they included
   (i) Inception: it is the initial phase of the developing process. 
   During this phase, the project's basic ideas and structure will be determined to prepare a business suite thus the team will decide the purpose of the project, success criteria, estimated cost, risk assessment, scheduled time, and resources required to complete it.
   
   (ii) Elaboration:This is the second phase of the development process. During this phase, to analyze the project's requirement and necessary architecture thus to review the problms
   develop and elimate the high-risk elements from the project.

   (iii) Construction:This is the third phase of the development process.During this phase, the project is developed and completed.
   Here, the softwareis designed, written and tested successfully.

   (iv)  Transition: This is the last phase of the development process. During this phase, the software is released and delivered tot he public or customers.


   Benefits of using Rational Unified process included;
   (i) It allows us to deal with changing requirements within the project;s development life cycle as per the client or customer needs.
   (ii) It supports incremental build the software product.
   (iii) It helps to use the resources efficently.

   Drawbacks of using Rational Unified process included;
   (i) It is a complex model to implement as it has multiple stages of the workflow.
   (ii) It is challenging for organizations to implement which has, small team size or projects.
   (iii) It should be highly result-oriented from individuals or teams.