Q1.. Software Processes is a logically set of activities for specifying, designing, implementing and testing software systems
and they help project managers plan their processes, estimate costs, identify challenges and communicate with teams and customers.

Q2.. Waterfall is a linear system of working that requires the team to complete each project phase before moving on to the next one 
        while
     Agile encourages the team to work simultaneously on different phases of the project.

   2B..  Waterfall model works well for smaller projects where requirements are clearly defined and very well understood
         Customer satisfaction by rapid, continuous delivery of useful software.

    2C..  High amounts of risk and uncertainty
          There is lack of emphasis on necessary designing and documentation.

Q3..
     Rational Unified Process  is a software development process from Rational, a division of IBM. 
     It divides the development process into four distinct phases that each involve business modeling, analysis and design, implementation, testing, and deployment.
     
     RUP include use-case driven, Iterative (repetition of the process), and Incremental (increase in value) by nature, delivered online using web technology, can be customized or tailored in modular and electronic form, etc. 
     RUP reduces unexpected development costs and prevents wastage of resources.

     The Key Phases in the RUP:

        Inception –
                Communication and planning are the main ones.
                Identifies the scope of the project using a use-case model allowing managers to estimate costs and time required.
                Customers’ requirements are identified and then it becomes easy to make a plan for the project.

        Elaboration –
                Planning and modeling are the main ones.
                A detailed evaluation and development plan is carried out and diminishes the risks.
                Revise or redefine the use-case model (approx. 80%), business case, and risks. 

        Construction –
            The project is developed and completed.
            System or source code is created and then testing is done.
            Coding takes place.
        
        Transition –
                The final project is released to the public.
                Transit the project from development into production.
                Update project documentation.  

        Production –
                The final phase of the model.
                The project is maintained and updated accordingly.

    Benefits of the RUP:

        It provides good documentation, it completes the process in itself.
        It provides risk-management support.
        It reuses the components, and hence total time duration is less.
        Good online support is available in the form of tutorials and training.
    
    Drawbacks of the RUP:

        Team of expert professional is required, as the process is complex.
        Complex and not properly organized process.
        More dependency on risk management.
        Hard to integrate again and again.

           