QUESTION 1
What is a software process model and why is it important in software development?
Software process models are convenient tools that developers use to map every step of their projects.
They help project managers plan their processes, estimate costs, identify challenges and communicate with teams and customers.

The process model is important in the software development because It help provide a visual representation of the development 
process for both the team and the customer to review.
They document their development process in this manner so they can identify early challenges or cost constraints in the future.

QUESTION 2 
Compare and contrast the Waterfall and Agile software process models. 
What are the key differences between the two models and 
what are the benefits and drawbacks of each?

Waterfall model:
The waterfall model, is a sequential, plan driven-process where you must plan and schedule all your activities 
before starting the project.Each activity in the waterfall model is represented as a separate phase arranged in
linear order.The phases include: Requirement gathering , System and software Design, Implementation and
unit testing, System Testing Operational and maintenance

Agile Model:
The Agile model, is an iterative and incremental approach to software development that focuses on delivering working 
software quickly and continuously throughout the project. In the agile process model Requirements 
are assumed to change, System evolves over a series of iterations, Customers are involved during each iteration,
Documentation is done only when needed.

Key differences:
The Agile process model is an iterative and incremental approach to software development. Whiles 
Waterfall model, is a sequential, plan driven-process to software development.

Benefits of Waterfall model:
1. The requirements are determined in the early stage.
2. It is easy to manage. 
3. Helps identify and manage risks early on in the project.

Drawbacks of Waterfall model:
1. It  highly structured and regimented, so it make changes difficult.
2. It Can lead to longer development and delays.
3. It exclude the client.

Benefits of Agile model:
1. It is flexibile.
2. It allows control over the project due to its transparency and feedback integration. 
3.It encourages collaboration and communication 

Drawbacks of Agile model:
1.It Can result in lack of documentation and planning.
2.It can be more difficult to accurately estimate the time to finish the project.
3.It increase greater demands from clients and developers.

QUESTION 3
What is Rational Unified Process (RUP), and 
how does it differ from other software development process models? 
What are the key phases and activities involved in RUP, and 
what are the benefits and drawbacks of using this approach in software development projects?

Rational Unified Process (RUP) is an iterative software development process framework for 
developing a high quality software. It describe three perspective that is a dynamic perspective
that shows phases over time, a static perspective that shows the process activities and a perspective
that shows good practices.

The key phases of RUP include;
1.Inception: The team establishes a business case for the system.
2.Elaboration: The team identifies risk, develops a project plan and creates system architecture.
3.Construction: The team develops parallel components.
4.Transition: The team delivers the system into its operating environment for customer review.

Benefits of RUP:
1.It is well Documented and complete methodology.
2.It is proactive to clients changing requirements and related risk. 
3.It reduces integration time and effort .

Drowbacks of RUP:
1.The process is too complex.
2.May lead to totally indisciplined form of software development.
3.Difficult to implement in smaller projects.
