INDEX NUMBER: 5201040831
FULL NAME: MBA JOHN ATINTONO
CLASS: ITE L300 I
1.	
What is a software process model and why is it important in software development?
Software process model is a structured set of activities required to develop a software system. In software engineering, a software process model is the mechanism of dividing software development work into distinct phases to improve design, product management and project management. The models specify the stages and order of a process. Is an abstract representation of a process, it presents a description of a process from some particular perspective.
	Software process models are convenient tools that developers use to map every step of their projects. 
	They help project managers plan their processes, estimate costs, identify challenges and communicate with teams and customers. 
	Process models help provide a visual representation of the development process for both the team and the customer to review.
	It helps them determine the right process to follow for specific software
	helps provide a visual representation of the development process for both the team and the customer to review.

2.	
In waterfall model, you must plan and schedule all of the process activities before starting work on them while the Agile model spent more time on how the system should be developed.
One of the distinct differences is that, the waterfall model deliver results at the end of the project while agile deliver results and often continuous.
The benefit of the waterfall is that, it is flexible, adaptable. Also customer satisfaction is a high priority, easy to accommodate changes, improved quality and customer involvement.
The drawback of the waterfall is that, it lacks flexibility after specification and with the Agile, it loses testing requirements which may let bugs through.
3.	
The Rational Unified Process (RUP) is an iterative process where instead of attempting to deliver the entire system in one end-to-end lifecycle set of phases (like Waterfall), the system is delivered in iterations where the iterations are a successive series of releases each with an increasing level of completeness. Rational Unified Process (RUP) is an example of a modified process model that has been derived from work on the UML and the associated unified software development process. 
The phases and activities involved in RUP are
	Inception: it established the business case for the system.
	Elaboration: it develops an understanding to the problem domain and the system architecture.
	Construction: it ensures system design, programming and testing.
	Transition: deploy the system in its operating development.
The benefit of the RUP is that, it emphasis the need for accurate documentation and its drawback is that, it is a complex model to implement as it has multiple stages of the workflow. 
